>> Sreenivasan: THIS WEEKEND IN
INDIANAPOLIS, THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SECRETARIES OF
STATE IS HOLDING ITS ANNUAL
MEETING.
THOSE ARE THE OFFICIALS WHO
OVERSEE ELECTIONS IN ALL 50
STATES.
IT'S USUALLY NOT A MEETING THAT
GARNERS A LOT OF ATTENTION, BUT
TWO THINGS MAKE THIS GATHERING
MORE IMPORTANT THIS YEAR.
ONE: JUST RECENTLY A NEW
ELECTION INTEGRITY COMMISSION
CREATED BY PRESIDENT TRUMP
REQUESTED ALL 50 STATES TO
PROVIDE DETAILED PERSONAL VOTER
INFORMATION TO FIGURE OUT, THEY
SAY, HOW TO PROTECT THE
INTEGRITY OF THE VOTE FROM
FRAUD.
MOST STATES ARE REFUSING TO
COMPLY EITHER PARTIALLY OR
COMPLETELY, BECAUSE HANDING OVER
SOME OF THIS INFORMATION
VIOLATES SOME STATE PRIVACY
LAWS.
THE OTHER REASON WE'RE PAYING
ATTENTION TO WHAT SECRETARIES
OF STATES DO IS THE SPECTER OF
RUSSIAN HACKING.
THE FORMER SECRETARY OF HOMELAND
SECURITY TESTIFIED TO CONGRESS
UNDER OATH LAST MONTH THE
RUSSIANS DID INDEED ATTEMPT TO
HACK VOTER REGISTRATION SOFTWARE
DURING THIS PAST ELECTION.
JOINING ME NOW FROM INDIANAPOLIS
TO DISCUSS THIS IS DENISE
MERRILL, PRESIDENT OF THE
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION AND
CONNECTICUT'S SECRETARY OF
STATE.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
FROM EVERY INDICATION, IT SEEMS
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP BELIEVES
PUTIN IN HIS DENIAL THAT THE
RUSSIANS MEDDLED IN THE
ELECTION.
DO THE SECRETARIES OF STATE
BELIEVE THE EVIDENCE PRESENTED
BY THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND
SECURITY?
>> WELL, PART OF THE PROBLEM
HERE IS WE DON'T REALLY KNOW
WHAT THAT EVIDENCE IS BECAUSE WE
DON'T HAVE SECURITY CLEARANCE
SO WE ARE KIND OF THE LAST TO
KNOW AND LOT OF THIS WE READ IN
THE PAPER.
>> Sreenivasan: THE SECRETARIES
OF STATE ARE READING THIS
INFORMATION IN THE PAPER AT
THE SAME TIME WE ARE, MEANING
YOU DON'T HAVE ANY KIND OF
HOTLINE THAT YOU ARE GETTING A
PHONE CALL ON SAYING, "HEY, WE
THINK YOU MIGHT'VE BEEN HACKED."
>> NO, AND THAT'S BEEN SORT OF
A PROBLEM.
ALTHOUGH ALL 50 STATES DO ALL
KINDS OF, YOU KNOW, SCANS OF
THEIR VOTER FILES AND LET ME BE
CLEAR: THE ONLY THING REALLY AT
RISK HERE IS THE VOTER FILE.
THE REGISTRY OF ALL THE VOTERS
IN EACH STATE AND THEY'RE KEPT
ON A STATEWIDE BASIS.
BUT NONE OF THE ACTUAL ELECTION
EQUIPMENT IS EVER TOUCHED.
IT'S NOT ON THE INTERNET.
>> Sreenivasan: AS SOME OF THE
REPORTING EARLIER POINTED OUT
THE DAMAGING OR CHANGING THAT
VOTER FILE OR EVEN CAUSING SOME
CONFUSION, THAT CAN CAUSE
THINGS LIKE DELAYS AT THE POLLS
OR PERHAPS CREATE DISINCENTIVES
FOR PEOPLE TO SHOW UP.
>> INDEED IT COULD.
AND I THINK THAT'S THE BIGGEST
DAMAGE THAT COULD BE DONE, WOULD
BE THE CONFUSION THAT WOULD
RESULT.
ALTHOUGH WE ALL HAVE PAPER
BACKUPS OF ALL THESE LISTS.
SO THE REAL DAMAGE IS MORE TO,
I GUESS YOU WOULD SAY, TO THE
INTEGRITY OF THE VOTE, THE
CONFIDENCE THAT PEOPLE HAVE THAT
THEIR VOTE'S BEING COUNTED HAS
BEEN THE BIGGEST LOSER IN THIS
WHOLE THING.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU HAD CLOSED
DOOR MEETINGS DURING YOUR
CONFERENCE WITH THE DEPARTMENT
OF HOMELAND SECURITY, WITH THE
F.B.I., WOULD THE INFORMATION
THEY PRESENT TO YOU NOW, ARE YOU
CONFIDENT THAT ALL OUR SYSTEMS
ARE SECURE, THAT RUSSIA OR ANY
OTHER FOREIGN COUNTRIES CANNOT
DO THIS TO US AGAIN?
>> I THINK WE'RE AS SECURE AS WE
CAN BE.
WE ARE IN THE ELECTRONIC AGE,
NO ONE IS ENTIRELY SAFE.
WE HAVE LOTS OF USERS OF THESE
SYSTEMS.
THE LOCAL OFFICIALS ARE THE ONES
THAT ACTUALLY KEEP THE LISTS AND
THEY LOG ON TO THESE SYSTEMS.
BUT I THINK THE BEST DEFENSE
AGAINST ALL THAT IS THE FACT
THAT THEY ARE KEPT IN 50 STATES
IN 50 SEPARATE DATABASES, AND
ALL THE ELECTION RESULTS AND
EVERYTHING ARE TALLIED LOCALLY.
IT'S AN EXTREMELY DECENTRALIZED
SYSTEM AND THAT'S A BLESSING
IN THE END.
>> Sreenivasan: TURNING NOW A
LITTLE BIT TO THE VOTER ELECTION
COMMISSION, ROOTING OUT FRAUD IN
THE SYSTEM SEEMS TO BE THE
THRUST OF WHY THE COMMISSION WAS
SET UP.
DO SECRETARIES OF STATE
BELIEVE THE PRESIDENT'S CLAIM
THAT THREE MILLION FRAUDULENT
VOTES WERE CAST THIS ELECTION TO
HIS OPPONENT?
>> I WOULD SAY OF COURSE THAT
DIFFERS STATE BY STATE BUT
EVERY STATE THAT I HAVE SEEN
STATEMENTS FROM HAVE SAID NO,
THEY DO NOT BELIEVE THAT
THERE'S ANYWHERE NEAR THAT
NUMBER.
REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS ALIKE
HAVE SAID THAT YES, DOES FRAUD
OCCUR OCCASIONALLY IN THEIR
STATES?
YES.
IS IT PROSECUTED?
YES, BUT IT IS NOWHERE NEAR THE
NUMBERS THEY ARE TALKING ABOUT.
IT'S WIDELY SEEN AS A VERY, VERY
OVERSTATED NUMBER.
>> Sreenivasan: AS YOU JUST
POINTED OUT, ONE OF THE
STRENGTHS OF THE SYSTEM IS THE
FACT THAT IT'S SO DECENTRALIZED.
ARE YOU CONCERNED THAT A
CENTRALIZED VOTER FILE WHICH
IS IN ESSENCE IS WHAT WOULD
HAPPEN IF THE ADMINISTRATION GOT
ALL THIS INFORMATION FROM ALL OF
THESE STATES, COULD BE HELD
SECURELY?
>> I'M DEEPLY CONCERNED ABOUT
THAT PERSONALLY.
AND I DON'T SPEAK NOW FOR EVERY
SECRETARY OF STATE-- AS YOU
SAID, IT'S VERY DECENTRALIZED.
BUT I'M DEEPLY CONCERNED ABOUT
THAT.
IT SEEMS LIKE A VERY ODD MOMENT
WHEN WE ARE TALKING ABOUT THE
DANGERS OF CYBER SECURITY, TO BE
CENTRALIZING A VOTER FILE
SOMEHOW.
AND NOW I'M TOLD IT'S ON A
COMPUTER AT THE WHITE HOUSE,
WHICH ALSO DOES NOT FILL ME
WITH CONFIDENCE.
>> Sreenivasan: DENISE MERRILL,
PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL
ASSOCIATION OF SECRETARIES OF
STATES OF STATE, THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.